This is a the final lightning lesson of
this course I'm doing the leadup to this
course cheat with agents. I'm really
excited about uh Agentic Search. Uh you
can see there's a discount code here
actually discount code from the last
session. Um but there will be one for
this session as well. Uh, agentic search
is interesting to me because I sometimes
do first I do a lot of work with it
seems like I end up doing a lot of work
for companies that build search as
someone's like for someone's job and so
I think like that's probably one of the
places we'll talk about where agentic
search is having such a big impact. It's
like there is some workflow that an
agent might be appropriate for like
helping out with. Uh, and then I also
think it's interesting from two other
angles. one is continuing the sort of
just LLM query understanding angle that
I've had through this whole course
that's going to be present and then also
some of the interesting stuff we could
talk about with how much could we let
agents do things like tuning search
relevance or vibe coding a search stack
like how far can you take that kind of
stuff so that's kind of the three-legged
stool of this class um Monday is the
last day it's going to be at its current
price there'll be an open house then for
students
uh February 4th, which is Wednesday,
I'll have my first will be the first
official session and then up until the
second session, people are free to do a
late sign up, but it will be more
expensive. So, that's just a brief
commercial. Really appreciate it. Uh
we're going to and then we're going to
continue having more talks uh on the
leadup to the next AI powered search
class, which will be at
maven.com/archchool.
Uh and there'll be other talks that are
maybe not as emphasized, not as like
agentic or LLM focused, but still very
exciting interesting stuff with
embedding search. There's some cool
stuff happening now with uh imple
improvements to late interaction models.
Uh there's all kinds of crazy
interesting cool stuff happening in
search. In fact, tomorrow Charlie Hall
will talk about using Cupid and Vespa
just straightforward offline evaluation.
So, uh yeah, that's that's my little
commercial break. Uh and hope to see you
in class. And with that, I will stop
sharing and just uh you're it's totally
up to you if you it's more you're more
than welcome to keep your camera on or
off. Uh definitely if you're it's not a
bad idea if you're participating,
but uh yeah, let me uh let's get
started. I wonder Daniel what you're
seeing. And not just Daniel, I'm curious
like if other people have thoughts on
this, feel free to raise your hand. Uh
on agents or agents and LLMs in the in
your in your work these days.
>> Yeah. So given that I tend to work with
search teams, I haven't seen any of them
replaced by agents, right? I think that
>> and and I
>> apologize for my clickbait.
>> Yeah, I think so. So let let's like get
that out of the way that I mean granted
I may not be you know the agents aren't
asking me for help only search teams
are. So there may be a bit of a of a
selection bias, but I think that right
now
um it's clear why, for example, as an
individual consumer, you might want an
agentic search on your behalf.
And um it's clear how that comes up say
in the context of coding, right? Like if
you're looking for a module that does
something and what you would do normally
would be to spawn off searches to GitHub
to pi to some other libraries and so
forth and essentially uh you know having
something that that automates what would
have been a federation a blending that
sort of thing makes a lot of sense. I
think that people who are building
commercial search applications,
if nothing else, they don't even want to
release that much control of the
process. They're, you know, they may
have have incentives that aren't
completely aligned with the end user
ones. They also want a bit of
consistency and determinism. So they're
just from I think from a business
perspective,
uh their issues to work out. But I also
think that a big thing like kind of the
best case for gentic search is very much
what would happen if I were to uh
outsource my search needs to a human
agent. This idea that I can tell you
exactly what I want that's easy for me
to do that that you have a decent amount
of common sense and an infinite amount
of willingness to do things. So you say
great I know what I need. maybe ask a
few questions in advance, but then I go
off and do it and get back to you when I
have it. And I think there there's a
large class of search needs for which
that's useful, but I think there's also
a large class for which that isn't. And
that the moment it's like, well, I won't
know exactly what I want until I see
some stuff along the way. At that point,
the gentic search today is iffy, right?
this whole question of like when does it
know to ask for more feedback? When does
it realize that some nuance in your
needs would matter and when does it
realize that um this process is likely
to teach you something as a searcher
that you wouldn't need otherwise? And
even from a business perspective, a
system that fails to do that is unlikely
to close the sale.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I think it's interesting. Uh
what's interesting
I think there are domains where there
are like for agentic search there are
and maybe I should step it back take a
step back and define kind of what what
we mean by this because I think there's
like for years for at least years for
like since 20 since chat GPT was a thing
basically late 2022 early 2023
we have built we rag has been a thing
and I feel like rag is kind of a like
In some ways it's like a traditional
search problem where you have like you
know an LLM interpret what a user wants
make a single shot to the
make a single shot of all that context
into some query that might be structured
and like results you as a h as a as a as
the API as application go and get some
get some results from a query back end
and shove them into the LM and show them
the user and you have like one shot to
figure all that out. In some ways that's
like kind of a in many ways like the a
traditional search problem. Like it's
not much different than like search
except you have a maybe you have an LLM
that can do like the cool thing is you
have an LLM that can maybe help
structure
>> better snippets.
>> Yeah. And you get better snippets and
you your LLM can like maybe show you the
right stuff and ignore bad stuff. Where
I think a agents are interesting is that
well a couple of things. First they they
formalize that like interaction with the
outside world with this tool usage not
notion. So an agent knows that it's
interacting with the tool even if like
the plumbing of that is still you're in
a for loop you're taking a tool request
and calling some search engine and
packaging it back up to the to the
agent. Uh it also is a has a reasoning
loop. So that's the other interesting
thing like if it gets something back
that's weird, it maybe didn't use the
search tool correctly, it uh whatever is
coming back isn't satisfying the user,
it can like so it can do a degree of
course correction within its like
context. Uh and so with that kind of
thing it's uh it's that's really that
that concept it can be really powerful
for certain kinds of domains where it's
like there is a problem the user wants
to solve. Can I that's relatively
complex and like the user can talk about
it. I'm going to go off and semi-auton
autonomously gather candidates and give
them to the user. Um, and where I think
that's really interesting compared to
the traditional ragspace and I think
e-commerce is probably most elucidating
in this because there are cases in
e-commerce that are just completely
inappropriate for this, but there are
cases where people search do have really
complicated
uh I would say information needs and
they probably like if I just had an
agent that literally was like sitting on
the back end doing some work to help me
find what I needed. That would be a huge
advantage. Um, and so for example, I
could imagine like John Barryman has
this vibe coded real estate search app
that he likes to bring like we do
consulting together and he brings it to
every consulting engagement which I
think is great. Uh, and it's it's really
a great conversation piece for this
agentic search space because that's a a
space with like really complicated needs
and you're like, I want a house that
has, you know, certain schools, certain
neighborhoods, certain walkability.
Uh, it's complicated. So, it's it makes
a lot of sense potentially for an agent
to be involved in that. But then you
have like another end of the spectrum
which is like this sort of like almost
passive behavior that I might do on
Amazon or eBay or something where I'm
like a instant gratification. I want to
just feel good about what I'm seeing and
I you know retail therapy that's maybe
not an agentic thing or just b like
literally the commodity kind of search
of like you know I don't know buying
toilet paper or buying like red shoes
and seeing what's available. Uh, and I I
think that's interesting is like the and
I don't know quite how to draw that
line, but there is kind of like a
really important. I need to get this
right. Uh, human in the loop
expertise involved versus
casual
instant gratification kind of thing that
I still feel like current search and
recommendations kind of thrives in.
Well, let me uh you know the the I I'll
ask you in a sec the uh Tito in a
second, but like I would say to me a
very big split point is how much do you
know about the users's kind of ultimate
need at the moment that they have
expressed their search. Now it might be
that there's still a stage of converting
what they said into something more
sophisticated than just you know
retrieval and ranking based on
conversion of that to something. It may
be that oh actually there are five
different searches for different kinds
of candidates. There may also be like
well if I don't find something here are
my fallback options. So there may be
sort of post result things. However,
that's not based on new input from the
searcher. That's based on either like
sort of knowledge about how to translate
what the searcher does into how to
interact the system or learning uh you
know a script that you might do
otherwise based uh contingency plans
based on um what the system does but
still knowing because you knew what the
user needed how to do that. And I think
the these moments of truth it's like oh
I suddenly realize as a system that I
need more and that to me is a is a very
big break point. Anyway, Tito, you had
your hand raised.
>> Interesting.
>> Yeah. I just wanted to understand the
scope of what we're talking about when
we talk about agentic search here. Um,
just building on the examples, Doug,
that you share, the e-commerce ones, are
are we so if I use an AI assistant that
has been upgraded to include shopping
use cases and I initiate, I tell it, I
want this thing, right? I'm not
specifying where I want it from. I
don't, you know, it's it's agentic in
the sense that it's figuring out a lot
of details.
Do you consider that an agentic search?
Or are we talking more about instances
where you might have some kind of
recurring buying behavior or maybe a
hard task and it's scouring for
information in the background and then
you either get a notification that it
went ahead and found it or you get a
notification that it went ahead and buy
bought it. I'm trying I kind of
understand like there is like a
difference between like an
[clears throat] an autonomous agent
where you give it instructions and it
works in the background versus kind of
what seems to be emerging right now
which is just a smarter search but you
have to like it's a one-off like find me
this thing and I'm like waiting on it in
some way. I'm trying to kind of
understand like where you draw the line
there.
>> I think it's a I think they're both I
would consider both agentic search. what
I think uh but I I think it's also
amorphously fast evolving poorly defined
space uh uh so in the former case of
like I am just using like chat GPT's
shopping function um in some ways that
can be I've used that in some ways it
can be really useful but it's really
useful in a sense of like it's good at
like because it's chatty it's just
getting a lot more information out of me
than like I would from a normal search
bar. And there is something about that
experience that is much more even in
that experience um that is I feel like
in some ways closer to the old quote
unquote experience of going to Google
and like looking for the wire cutter
article and like what the best
headphones I should get or it's almost
like kind of in that early sometimes I'm
not using it to like I'm usually not
using it for fun things. I'm using it
because like there's a problem to solve
where it's like I care about like the I
care about some specific aspect. I want
to do research. Uh I want to know what
what headphones I should get for my
teenager that are going to be durable
and have some is is basically like not
going to destroy them and uh has low
likelihood of destroying them and so on.
and I'm like giving it this information
and I feel like sometimes that's like
it's not quite at the stage where I'm
like either making impulse buys at the
end of the funnel or it's like I'm I
know exactly what I need. So I do think
that's like a differentiation um that we
could talk about. I also think there is
a kind of agentic search as a uh as a
longunning
like it's kind of come up more of like
coding agents like autonomous agents and
it's maybe crazy I think it's maybe
towards the bleeding edge of the vibe
coding thing but these autonomous agents
sit in the background and do stuff I
like in some ways for search there is
kind of a pattern that I've seen in some
domains where it's like there is a let's
say the web or there is some like larger
data set where uh I have an agent that's
like
kind of collecting candidates from that
data set uh but that they get manifest
in some local store for me personally
um that's almost more like a crawler but
it's almost like an agentic kind of
crawler where it's like preparing like
you could imagine going out to having an
agent that was really good at like had
access to Indeed search and LinkedIn
search and all of these candidates.
>> That's exactly how I was going to go
with this by the way.
>> Yeah. It's like prepare and this is
actually an example I have in my course.
is like prepare me uh give me the 500
top experts in I don't know agentic
search and somehow it can do that and
but it's it's prepared for you almost
like a mini search index that's local
for you to explore and maybe even like
get some breakdown or top level
breakdown so
>> I think both are valid yeah
>> sounds like a personally tailored
um in this example e-commerce experience
except you know instead of the drudge
work of having to source all of these
things. Presumably, it's it's has done
all that work and then brought it back
to you and presented it in the fashion
that is ideal for your decisioning your
your conversion.
>> Yeah.
>> Like a almost like a freshbaked
um uh like a freshbaked federated
e-commerce page or something like that.
>> Yeah. So, so I think what's funny in in
this model, right, and I think the um uh
hiring or candidate or expert search is
is a great need. Imagine that you did
this and the school's like great, I'll
get back to you in a day or in 15
minutes or but like in an amount of time
that doesn't quite feel interactive and
then it comes back and it gives you a
whole bunch of SEO experts say and it's
like that's not what I meant. And then
and if you have to do this repeatedly,
you start to feel potentially that I can
tell it and I hope it understood me and
I'll find out in 15 minutes if it really
did. And in contrast, I think a lot of
us have gotten used to, okay, search
isn't that smart, but the feedback is
pretty quick. So it still puts a lot of
burden on us to refine to to revise but
at least the speed of the feedback
allows us to essentially keep making
attempts. And in some ideal world the
the communication channel is one where
it's like look you know understanding
isn't perfect but it's certainly better
than just you know here's a bunch of
retrieved and ranked results by some
opaque function. and the uh
communication is at a level where, you
know, it's a bit more effort than what
we're used to with our our keyword
searches, but we feel like that effort's
rewarded because we're able to to hone
in on what we want. I feel like kind of
a search is pushing us in that
direction. Now, to be fair, some things
take a lot of work. So, I I think it use
the the sort of recruiting as the
example. If you've ever worked with with
an outside recruiter, the good ones take
a bunch of time, show you examples,
essentially converge on, okay, we agree
on what your information need is.
>> Now I know what I need. I can work in
the background. I can work with with
with latency.
>> And I think that pattern is one at least
I haven't seen that emerge in the
agentic space yet. Uh but there's no
reason we couldn't do it.
>> Yeah, exactly. And a lot of the stuff is
like
a lot of this stuff is being designed as
we're talking about. I mean, we're
literally designing systems as we're
speaking right now. But the so I I do
wonder like how this will look for a I
see this this this I bring this up
because this question comes up in almost
every discussion I have with a team
where there is a I would say like a
highly
a very thoughtful information need user
with a very
uh usually strongly incentivized to care
about the outcome. So usually that's
people who are like doing this as their
job. So like people work with a certain
kind of financial or legal or medical
data uh and or the people who are like
you know a e-commerce user that are very
incentivized to care about their
purchase. Uh maybe that's a good way
that might be a good way to think about
it is like how how much how thoughtful
are you about your information need
versus like where I am more skeptical is
there we have spilt over the last
10 20 years all of these systems that
are in some ways built around like
clickstream data on like because three
you know thousands of people a day
search for red shoes and we know what's
is gratifying for those red shoes users
and drives engagement. Uh
and it's because you know these shoes
look a certain way or we have a certain
way of like you know liz people's lizard
brains clicking on things. I don't think
that lizard brain side of the
information retrieval space which is
kind of like that kind of passive search
uh over and I don't want to like I don't
want to like say it's demean it as like
it's not complicated. it's just like
maybe lacks human beings often are
lacking consciousness of their
information need or lacking
prioritization of it uh over like that
kind of search over to things like
recommener systems which I don't think
necessarily I feel like that's still a
thing that's like I just want to see on
a beautiful pane of glass this sort of
like a set of products that I might get
excited about or this I haven't heard of
this book and that kind of thing.
Um yes Jeremy raised an interesting
point in the chat right like that that
we're talking essentially about these uh
traditional alerts or standing filters.
I've seen it different name listeners
and I do think that the
um the idea of those which I was
thinking of even before I saw him posted
in the chat has been around for a very
long time but the um the the the what
these things are able to do or rather
that the the the the implementation
details if you will but such as the
expressivity of what you're watching out
for is a very big difference. In
essence, it's the same. You could argue
the search itself. It's like if I'm able
to essentially after a conversation say,
"Okay, now we figured out exactly what I
want. Now, if you can get it for me
immediately, that's great. But if it's
going to take time, we've just derisked
the you're going to get me stuff, I'll
have to wait for it and I'll turn out
that it's not what I want." Um, but if
you go back far enough, there's a time
when the search would cost you. But I
mean, it costs you in time, even if it
doesn't cost you in in money. It costs
you in kind of the opportunity cost if
you trust this thing is going to give
you stuff for it and and you don't do
that in that time. So, I think, you
know, the trade-off is basically, do I
want a very rapid feedback loop because
I don't trust you to know and be able to
get me what I want, or do I want to say,
look, that part's been derisked. So now
I'm actually just I mean sure sooner is
better but quality is really the most
important thing. So take the time that
you need and you know if new stuff comes
in uh assuming it's a dynamic system get
me that stuff as it's as it's available.
Uh I I do think by the way like this
this aentic idea goes well beyond
search. I mean if you're using vibe
coding it's the difference between you
know sort of claw telling you yeah I
know what you mean. And it's like, "No,
no, no, you you don't. And please, like,
ask me more questions before jumping to
the conclusion that, you know, I don't
want to be bothered. It's true. I'm
using an agent because I don't want to
do the work, but that doesn't mean that
I want the wrong work done for me."
>> Right. Yeah. I I noticed uh like Daniel,
one thing that you uh you were that I
would be curious to get your perspective
on is like this sort of like compounding
errors that tend to happen with these
agents. If you have a like it's really
cool that an agent is autonomous and
maybe it could go away even and come
back tomorrow with like job candidates
or houses to buy or whatever, but what
happens when
something compounds? And we sort of like
you hinted at this. We sort of see this
with coding agents like coding agents
can go completely off in left field and
if you are not paying attention things
can go wrong.
>> I mean we see it even we don't have to
go to agents to see where this starts to
happen in search. I've seen people who
um they fixate on on their scoring
function when the real issue is that
their query understanding is broken. And
so not surprisingly improving the
function that relates your queries to
your results is not going to give you
much if fundamentally the problems in
your queries or even or maybe the
representation of your content itself.
In a sense, a gentic search just doubles
down on this problem. If uh the way in
which your your need has been understood
is problematic,
um you know, you now have a system
that's going to go all out to meet that.
Even worse, if somewhere along the way
it learns things that are wrong and
doubles down, um it just keeps going
from there. So, um, you know, if you're
in the loop and you're in the loop
frequently, you're as a human, you're
likely to notice that something's up,
intervene, and break that. So I I think
a big challenge is for these systems to
have enough self-awareness to say, you
know,
there's enough of a chance that I might
have gotten something wrong or enough of
a risk that I might have gotten
something wrong to to ask for more or
ask for clarification or even ask for
confirmation. Now, the downside is these
things do it all the time. You'll say,
"Stupid agent. Why am I even, you know,
why don't I just do it all myself if I'm
going to have to intervene at every
stage? Managing that trade-off, I do
think is the fundamental problem of of
of agentic workflows in general, but
aentic search in particular.
>> Yeah, 100%. Um, and it seems like the
way people are dealing with that is they
just like kind of mirroring the coding
space is you really have to have a lot
of guard rails along the way. And I
think one of the things that our job if
we're building this kind of workflow is
like what are the checkpoints along are
there are there basically you can think
about them as assertions or
logical tests of the universe that you
can add along the way that help you
ensure that the data that you're
retrieving is in some ways like sane.
Um, and there are there's levels of
this, right? The one thing you're
probably not going to be able to solve
is if the user like typed in a stupid
question and the agent like crazily
interpreted it. Although, now that I say
that, I think like one thing that you
can do there is just add guardrails of
like, am I reading way too much into
this compared to like what was actually
specified?
The stupid question is a really good
example where where we learned early on
um you know if I think you might have
misspelled something I clarify that
rather than going all in and saying oh
I'm sure you meant exactly what you
said. um you know if there is um enough
ambiguity in the query or just if I'm
not sure I understood it um the um like
an example I use in in the speech
context is that Newark sounds a lot like
New York and if I ask for for a flight
to Newark maybe you know you should say
just you know let's confirm before I
start spending a lot of effort uh
booking you or at least looking for
flights to the wrong airport the uh so
that's not even a case of the query not
making sense and potentially not even a
case of the system misering or
misunderstanding the query. It's just
saying wow um there's enough of a
probability of getting this wrong and if
I got it wrong um the cost will be high.
The cost on the other hand of clarifying
is very low. Yeah, I think that's like
actually a big difference between what
it feels like as developers when we are
building like vibe coding an application
versus as developers what it feels like
when we're building an agentic system
for someone else.
>> So if we're like vibe coding an
application, we see the agent go off on
the rails in its code generation. We add
whatever checks that we think we need uh
to monitor the situation, tests like
whatever that kind of give it a sense of
it's uh what direction it should go. Um,
and but if if we're building a tool for
someone else that almost like that's
like a 10x increase in complexity cuz we
have to take all of these situations and
I mean it gets to a classic problem of
search of we have to be able to test all
of these situations that are ambiguous,
weird, off on the rails situations and
we have to ask ourselves
uh we have to begin to basically do a
level of query understanding evaluation
like are we doing are we understanding
ing this chat these chat turns in a
accurate way. Uh and you have the added
complexity which um which uh Jeremy kind
of points out of like you have a LLM
that has its own mind about things which
may or may not be in line which often is
like 80% in line with what the user the
user domain is. uh and those things have
to be reconciled because the LLM will
make assumptions about like when you ask
a certain kind of question then
I'm trying to think of a good example of
this like uh like maybe a classic
example just comes from like the the
Korean understanding world of like I I
think I actually used this a couple days
ago when I talked about search
evaluation the I I did some work for a
major US auto parts supplier and it was
their internal search. It was like the
sales people would go and search for
things. And my default assumption, I'm
pretty sure this would be an LLM's
default assumption was like when the
user searches for a searches for like a
given uh part number, part type or part
number, they just want that part to come
back. In reality, what they're doing is
they're looking for what commission can
I get? Like what are the advertised
commissions on parts today? and does
this one have a commission or does this
one have a commission? And so that
completely changes how you might
interpret the query and how you might
evaluate the query and the query
understanding. And you can't you can't
uh you can't just like 80% of the time
the LLM will do the right thing with its
encyclopedic knowledge and that's the
secret weapon. But 20% of the time uh it
it sort of reveals the assumptions even
you have about the domain and how you
you just ass you often assume when you
work on a search team everyone thinks
this way but then you suddenly realize
like oh wait no the the the world has to
be taught about my assumptions.
Well, I mean I I think this goes back to
uh uh the this old uh concept of query
performance prediction, right? Like you
look at your answer, does your answer
look completely unreasonable? Because
you know, you're effectively uh talking
about five different things and somebody
who's interested in one of them wouldn't
be interested in the other four, then
you're like, okay, well, maybe I need to
clarify, but I I know, right? Like if
that's a set of search results and
they're incoherent,
generally a sign that uh I must have
broken somewhere along the way and the
obvious place would be in
misunderstanding the question. I have
priors and if I you know if I arrive at
a question and I have a model that says
that's a really weird question in some
domains that's okay especially if the um
there is no sort of strong head of the
distribution but it's a it's a bit of
feedback to say you know given that my
prior on somebody asking a question like
this is so low maybe I should see if
it's more likely that I misunderstood
and they meant something more more
probable. So all of those techniques
that we've had uh in you know not just
query understanding but in general the
endto-end uh evaluation of of how a
systems performing still matter and for
that matter they the new techniques like
you know sort of chain of thought or
other kind of verification techniques
they fit into this they're ways of
saying
>> does it look like I got to a reasonable
end from where I started and I think
that the more complex the pathway way,
the more critical it is to build in
guardrails like that.
>> 100%. Yeah. Yeah. And I think we're
discovering what those guardrails are
and should be too. Like another kind of
guardrails, if you do have this long
running task that is going off and
building a small index of candidates for
you, uh then you need the guardrails of
knowing your index issely constructed
and that like anyone who's going to use
that down the stream is going to be able
to uh be able to use it in a way that
makes sense. Um,
I think what's interesting is, you know,
there is people may know there's a
company called Hornet, hornet.dev, which
is maybe people know Joe Christian
Bergam who used to work at Vespa. That
whole their whole thing is agentic
search. And I think that's a lot of what
their what to me makes them interesting
is like what their platform is really
about is like thinking through all of
these constraints that we would have uh
and sort of guard rails. I have no like
commercial connection to them, but I
think it's interesting just from a uh
how they how they think about like
guardrails around like doing anything
from sort of like syntactically forming
like forming a sane collection up into,
you know, potentially like relevance
itself being a kind of guardrail that
you're sort of like looking out for.
Uh I like T's point about um per
basically having client side well not
necessarily client side implementation
but this idea that that uh agents are
natural place or personalization and I
mean I think of that as uh um similar to
this idea of like learning to rewrite
like um if I'm looking for shirts
obviously if I don't say anything else I
mean t-shirts because me Right. But the
uh and
um whether it's source selection uh
whether it's uh location, all sorts of
contexts. I I think that um the nice
thing is that an agent,
you know, can can appropriately
uh you know, sort of try to overfitit to
the the uh the searcher, but also can be
transparent about it, can say what it's
learned so that um I mean, I had this
funny experience with with chat GPT
where it assumed that everything I cared
about was in the context of my being,
you know, a high class consultant to the
where it started suggesting when I asked
about restaurants that those would be
places I'd be taking clients. I'm like,
"No, no, like please like stop doing
that." Right? But so I mean
personalization always has its its its
risks that way. But I think in the
context of of an agent that you can
teach, you can give feedback to, there's
an opportunity for a huge amount of
leverage and I do like that.
>> Yeah. Totally. Yeah. the uh yeah, I
think it's I've had similar experiences
with memory. I think memory is kind of a
difficult I don't I feel like it's not
quite a fully formed feature yet because
it's it gives it people have all kinds
of weird experiences where it seems to
selectively remember weird things from
previous conversations.
um like that. I think at one point I
asked it to I gave it some like argument
and I said act like a college professor
critiquing their grad student like to
try to break it out of sickopantic mode.
Uh and then like for a week or so after
that was like all I got was like the
college professor tone like even if I
had some like casual question about
everything which was fine. [gasps]
Now you've all raised the point about
conflicts of interest potentially or at
least uh competition of interest between
uh you know
consumer searchers and say the people
who are running e-commerce sites. I
think it raises a bigger question which
is basically in a world where um the
searchers aren't the immediate searchers
aren't people then a lot of things do
break down right this is why Amazon is
so upset at perplexity because suddenly
their ability to throw ads all over the
place uh or manipulate the ranking in
some ways completely undermined by uh
this system that's basically able to
read through them toss out uh the stuff
that's not of interest to the user. And
I I do think if you go down that path,
ultimately you're going to see very
different incentive systems. Um you
might even see it something imagined
decades ago where search has to be paid
>> because you're effectively
uh you know that right now the reason
why search can be free is not just ads
but in general that you know search
explicitly commands human attention and
that attention is either monetized by
the interaction with the results
directly or
>> with with some kind of payment for it.
But if most of the attention now will be
done by machines whose attention cannot
be monetized directly
with the economic model does have to
change.
>> Yeah. You see this I mean another
parallel with code. You see this with
open source maintainers who are like it
used to be the case that human beings
would come to GitHub. They would see
this project I made. They would
participate. they might see products
related to this product to this uh open
source project in like the documentation
and a lot of that has just gone off a
cliff like people are uh people are like
should I make this completely private
like people think about these kinds of
things like uh although in code it's a
it's even starker because like
potentially the LLM have all like
memorized their code anyway
unfortunately for better or for worse um
Uh so I I think you're right like I
think that we could see a situation and
you see this um web search has become a
market even because of how of agents
like there are companies like EXA that
their whole thing is we charge for you
to have a web index so that you can
search over your agents can search over.
So you already see it with that and I
will be interested to know to what
extent this develops in other domains. I
mean, Reddit holds I mean, it's tightly
related to holding your data closely
because Reddit also kind of uh enters
these monetization agreements with
people about their content. Um, that's
more for training. Uh, but I do see it
on search like some agents are like,
I've run out of my usage limit on
searching Reddit or something. Uh, so I
think you're absolutely right. I feel
like in some ways, you know, there's the
dead internet theory of like everything
will be generated by LLMs, but also
there's the like potentially
increasingly private internet theory of
like all the humans will be hiding in
some kind of I don't know walled garden
somewhere or some place that at least
has like limited limited access uh for
like things that used to be just like
people were happy for them to be crawled
by Google. They're just not at all happy
for like chat GPT, OpenAI to crawl them.
I I mean doubling down on what Mary's
saying uh that like we certainly saw
like Stack Overflow is a lot less
interesting now that you know people
instead of looking and maybe having some
moment of gratitude or retention to the
people posting there are getting the
same kinds of answers you know through
uh through their LLMs and uh I I mean
you could generalize that to saying
uh right now you know you look for an
open-source
package
then you know you use something like
like claude and it installs the open
source package without even you know
you're having to know about it. So you
certainly you know don't feel anything
towards the uh the maintainers to it
build something from scratch that is
based on the open-source package.
So, right. And and over time, whatever
the the currency that this that that
this kind of of um of volunteer work
might have represented reputationally
or what have you, it it it diminishes.
Now, does that mean that, you know,
humans suddenly become much more
mercenary? Does it potentially mean that
also we say look um you know it's nice
that you published a book of the tables
of logarithms but we don't really need
people to do that anymore because it's
computable right and so so I think it
does become an interesting question as
to um how much of this work was never
inherently human to begin with and
>> the machines can can do it because
they're effectively
>> um they're just doing grunt work
themselves, which is quite I think
different from uh just piggybacking on
the inherently what we think of today at
least is the inherently human work of
creation.
Yeah, we especially like some of these
like uh research is an interesting space
with that because I feel like you might
on the one hand you might say uh doing
doing this complicated research in a
search tool and being a able to use that
and critically think about each result.
On the one hand, you might argue, you
know, that's important human work. On
the other hand, the other end of the
spectrum of having an agent give you
information and breadcrumbs
and then you have to think critically
about at least the summary it gave you
because agents like you doing research
through I don't know if anyone's done
actual serious research with chat GPT
like try to actually like I think a lot
of people do casual research and get
their like uh their priors reinforced so
to speak their like sort of existing
assumptions reinforced because Chachi
this is why I told JPT to treat me like
a college a student uh and it be the
professor uh because there is a degree
to which if you are a user of one of
these potentially agentic search
applications it's not so much that
you're it may ultimately be a value ad
in terms of time save of like
laboriously going through and reading
everything. Uh on the other hand you
have to be savvy. It's a skill in and of
itself because LLMs are very have very
specific limitations in terms of wanting
if you ask it a question if you frame
that as a thing that it can confirm it
is going to do that. If you frame it as
so if you're more careful about framing
it uh
you you may you may get more results you
may get better results but you have to
be really careful because it can easily
just want to confirm your find evidence
for confirming your initial hypothesis.
Uh so I think there is a kind of
research skill and critical thinking
skill that's basically in some ways more
needed today for everybody than uh like
a couple years ago pre-Chat GBT. It's
just that a researcher's job may not be
as much to go and like potentially read
everything that comes back in a search
results page. Look, I I think one of the
interesting things that that these tools
are are doing, I mean, I I uh
I'll go on a tangent, but it'll make
sense in a moment. I remember uh early
on in the the sort of data science,
machine learning days, you had to learn
both how to use all the technical uh
tools and you had to learn something
about statistics. you have to learn um
uh kind of fundamentals of say machine
learning concepts like overfitting etc.
Um and you tended to learn both of these
things and maybe you thought of that as
one big bag of skills and then suddenly
the technology is democratized. All you
need to do is is use the API uh by
downloading some Python uh package for
example and you didn't need to know
anything about the infrastructure and so
forth. And the problem was not that
learning about the infrastructure was so
important. The problem was that the
people who didn't know about the
infrastructure also didn't know about
statistics about sort of the phil
philosophy and theory of machine
learning
>> and so they would misuse these tools and
now I think we're finding that let's say
uh you're seeing this with coding like
can every uh you know can non-coders
code now that they can use claw not
necessarily because it turns out that
concepts like testing concepts like
technical debt concepts like um
generalizability solutions and scope
whatever these things matter. So I think
that the biggest danger I see in the
technology of search getting too easy is
that um we're no it we're masking the
importance of critical thinking. We're
masking you know like um these problems
always existed. the example for example
of of of um uh being uh looking for
confirmatory evidence only. We see that
in AB testing, but hopeful, you know, at
a time when anybody running AB tests
also had to learn about all things they
could do wrong, maybe uh they'd be less
like less prone to do this. But if
anybody can push a button and do it, um
they they don't find out, oh, what are
the you know, what are the the terms and
conditions under which uh under which
you can do that. And I think that um we
really have to rethink
what uh what it means to leverage these
ecosystem and it's happen the change is
happening so radically. Yeah, totally.
And I I have [snorts] and it's such a
uh we might be a far a bit far field
from agentic search, but still I think
it's interesting because
uh in an education context if you it's a
it's a sort of a eggshell thing to walk
across because on one hand I'd like to
go and
I I have a I have a teenager and what's
interesting is like how much they've
brought back in the school just like
inclass essays and like uh they're they
compared to when I was probably when we
were teenagers, Daniel, they're like the
teachers are like, I actually kind of
like your your kids writing quirks and
they're not as pnicity about like things
that a spell checker or grammar checker
would catch, which is in some ways kind
of refreshing. Um they want the nonGPT
experience as much as possible. Uh but
on the other hand I feel like there is a
uh there is like a right there is a time
that kids older kids college students
it's like you I almost want to like give
people a course that's just like I want
you to research this really complicated
topic and you can use anything you want
but you have to be able to
uh you have to be able to like verbally
adversarily defend what you're what
you're using and take advantage of the
fact that like chat like let them use
chat GPT or whatever but take advantage
of the fact that like chat GPT is going
to
you know feed them a load of of of BS of
things that they want to hear. Uh I
think that would be a lot of fun.
[laughter]
>> Yeah.
I mean, look, I I I I've been um it's
it's a gentic search of of a sort. Um
it's a a side project. I've been playing
around with generating karaoke videos.
>> What's interesting is that
uh so you give a song name, title, what
have you. Which one? It's on YouTube.
Which one? It's in lyrics databases.
Which ones do they align? Right? And and
it turns out that if you're naive about
this, it seems like a really simple
problem. Like grab these things, put
them together, and then you discover
their discrepancies, and then you
discover you could maybe try to extract
the audio yourself. But then like what
do you treat as source of truth? And it
turns out that if you're not careful and
you use uh you know kind of an agentic
uh coding tool, it will do everything
for you, not be happy with it. And then
when you try to make a fix, it will do
what your worst self would do, which is
just hack something that kind of fixes
that. So you have to step back and say
wait like
>> let me understand the problem I'm trying
to solve. Now it doesn't mean that you
should then be not get the benefits
>> right
>> of uh of what these tools can automate
for you. You know I don't think you
should have to learn the APIs to every
system that you're using. That's a great
case for for having that be translated
for you. I don't think you should have
to you know find every relevant tool,
you know, with your bare hands. It's a
great you know sort of a casual research
uh use case but understanding where you
know you still need to be involved in
the decision making uh versus where you
should be outsourcing that like that
that so so that that's sort of the
agentic problem in general. And in the
case of search, at least we have this
the nice thing is it's in the context of
you're having an actual need to find
stuff or to find information.
>> Right. Right. I think Tito makes a
really good point about a lot of people
like human beings
will sort of by default trust what the
search says. And this happens all the
time with um
there. In fact, so my son and I play
this game called Access and Allies,
which is just like a World War II
strategy game. And uh we have frequently
used Jack.
>> Do you play that?
>> No. No. I said hopefully.
>> Hopefully. [laughter]
Yeah. Yes. Hopefully. Scope to World War
II. Uh uh and uh yeah. So the we will
look up rules with CHBT and like nine
times out of 10 it's it's right. uh when
we confirmed them. But there was one
thing we realized sort of like when you
add up the amount of sort of like every
square on the board gets a player a
certain amount of money basically. It's
like when you add that up it's different
than the like starting amount that it
says on the like the like in the rule
book or whatever.
>> And we had this like long discussion
with chat GPT is like no this is
different. We've added it up multiple
times. We have to figure out like what's
going on here. And lo and behold,
luckily like through honestly through
googling more than chat GPT, we're like
we found the like forum post on the on
the company website that's like oh yeah
that's like off by one for every player
and here's what tournament players do
and here's what other people do. So it
was like I thought [snorts] that was
like really educational for both for
him. I mean for but for both of us like
yeah getting like the basic facts of
this game it was pretty good at like
kind of so we didn't have to like you
know when you play these complicated
board games you have to go through these
instruction manuals and they're a
headache. Uh but then like the the sort
of like uh these sort of like weird edge
case things that like not everyone's
going to notice. It's it it definitely
you definitely still have to have your
researcher brain.
>> Yeah. And I and I think like we were
talking about trust. I just mentioned
it. Yeah. Like that. I mean I want
there's an opportunity here for these
systems to say like um here's my
evidence, here's why you should trust
this and so forth. I mean one of the one
of the questions will be when to do that
and and to to what extent. I mean,
>> uh, if the I if if the stakes are low,
just give you an answer and I'll I'll
run with it. If the stakes are high,
um, you know, it's worth slowing it
down. And so having, um, and and I think
realistically,
I mean, you could imagine that that you
as a user say, look, this is really
important to me, so get this right. And
in some case you might have to do that
because it might not be obvious that it
would be important. But I think these
systems should have decent prior you
know just that like if you're making a
very expensive purchase presumably the
system should know wow like if I steer
you wrong that's going to be a big deal
and if you're getting if you're doing
something that's very like you know I
give the example if if if I want to play
a song and you play the wrong song
what's the big deal? I I just hit next.
If I'm going to send an email and you
send it to the wrong person, that's a
big enough deal, you should check, hey,
did you really mean that? Did you is
that the person you intended to? And
this this idea of of a sensitivity of an
error model uh that reflects that is
something that I don't see these systems
investing enough effort into.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Well, I think that's a good
way to place to leave it. Uh we got a
couple minutes left. Um, Daniel, I
didn't actually give you a chance to
introduce yourself, which I was sorry
about that, but do you want to uh do you
want to give a little spiel just about
yourself and where people can find you?
>> So, I I I I've been working in search
pretty much since forever as part of the
founding team of Indecca in 1999, which
basically brought faceted search to to
e-commerce sites. Uh, worked at Google
and LinkedIn for a while. And then about
six years ago I uh went went on my own
and have been helping mostly e-commerce
companies but also other folks on uh on
bringing you know sort of uh better
better search to people and I think I'd
say I used to be contrarian in that I I
was um less focused on ranking and much
more focused on really getting to to
query understanding getting to kind of
uh negotiating the searchers intent. And
what's funny is it feels like the world
has come around a bit and now that's
much more aligned with what folks are
doing. And I'm sure that uh uh Jeremy is
smiling on or off camera because uh
we've been journey together.
>> Cool.
All right. Well, I hope uh definitely
check out Daniel's stuff. Check out the
Aentic Search course if it interests
you. But uh thank you everyone for
coming. This has been a fascinating
conversation and I hope everyone has a
good Thursday and rest of your uh rest
of your weekend.
Take care. Thank you all.